---
title: "TB6612FNG Driver"
date: 2020-05-01
categories: Project
header:
  image: "/images/TB6612FNG/TB6612FNG.png"
excerpt: "Hardware Drivers, STM32"
mathjax: "true"
---

# Easy Motor Control

The TB6612FNG is a dual DC motor driver IC with a H-Bridge topology. The driver is most suited for small 6V DC motors. Since its invention and with the introduction of breakout boards from several manufacturers, this IC has become popular for small robotic devices. The TB6612FNG driver was made to simplify the operation of the IC by a microcontroller, and has been made available open source to help new projects get up to speed.

## Operation

The TB6612FNG has 5 basic I/O pins:
* Analogue and Digital Power.
* Motor Drive Output (2 channels).
* Direction Select GPIOs (2 per channel).
* PWM Speed Control (1 per channel).
* Standby (Global Enable).

These are a lot of lines! Good control is necessary to coordinate the system and to ensure smooth operation. The driver aims to facilitate an iterative codebase to create the best and most efficient driver possible.

## Configuration

The driver requires a simple setup. A simple typedef must be made for each channel to detail Direction Select (I) pins and the timer and timer channel responsible for the PWM.
'''c
    TB6612FNG_Motor motorA = {
        .MOTOR = TB6612FNG_Motor_A,
        .I1 = &(TB6612FNG_Pin){ .Port = AI1_GPIO_Port, .Pin = AI1_Pin },
        .I2 = &(TB6612FNG_Pin){ .Port = AI2_GPIO_Port, .Pin = AI2_Pin },
        .TIMER = &(TB6612FNG_Timer){ .htim = &htim3, .channel = TIM_CHANNEL_4}
    };
'''
Note that the STM32 must be have these pins configured to these respective modes.

A final typedef for the Standby pin then completes the definitions:
'''c
    TB6612FNG_Pin stby = { .Port = STBY_GPIO_Port, .Pin = STBY_Pin };
'''
These parameters get saved to the driver by calling the setup method.
'''c
    setupTB6612FNG(&htim3, &motorA, &motorB, &stby);
'''
And it's done! From there the IC can be controlled by the simple and intuitive set of commands:
1. startTB6612FNG
2. stopTB6612FNG
3. motorState
4. setMotorDutyCycle

# Further Development

Removing dependencies from the STM32 HAL library is the next step of development. This will enable the driver to be useful to any development platform. If you can't get away from Arduino IDE, have a bash at modding this code and please remember to submit pull requests!

# Recourses

* [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/LawrenceStanton/TB6612FNG_Driver)
* [TB6612FNG Datasheet](https://toshiba.semicon-storage.com/info/docget.jsp?did=10660&prodName=TB6612FNG)